UOP.md, before:

# Universal User-Oriented Programming (UOP)

Universal User-Oriented Programming (UOP) is the design philosophy behind the Beacon language. It prioritizes human readability, intuition, and clarity, aiming to bridge the gap between human thought processes and machine execution.

---

## The Core Principles of UOP

1.  **Human-Centric Keywords:** Language constructs are named with common words that clearly describe their function (e.g., `ask`, `show`, `check`, `attempt`). This minimizes the cognitive load required to understand the code's intent.

2.  **Intuitive Structure:** The syntax is designed to follow the logical flow of human thought. For example, error handling with `attempt-trap` reads like a plain-language description of trying an action and catching a problem.

3.  **Clarity Over Brevity:** While Beacon code can be concise, the primary goal is always clarity. UOP avoids cryptic symbols and abbreviations in favor of expressive, self-documenting code.

4.  **Universal Accessibility:** The language is designed to be approachable for a wide audience, including beginners, educators, artists, and engineers, without sacrificing the power needed for complex applications.

---

## UOP in Practice

UOP is reflected in every aspect of the Beacon language, from its syntax to its modular structure.

| Feature | UOP Implementation | Rationale |
|---|---|---|
| **Functions** | `spec` | "Specification" implies defining a clear behavior. |
| **Interfaces** | `bridge` | A "bridge" is a relatable metaphor for connecting two separate things. |
| **Modules** | `toolkit` | A "toolkit" is an intuitive name for a collection of reusable tools. |
| **Conditionals** | `check`, `alter`, `altern` | These words clearly describe a process of checking conditions. |
| **Error Handling** | `attempt`, `trap`, `trigger` | This vocabulary frames error handling as an active, understandable process. |
| **Input/Output** | `ask`, `show` | These are direct, action-oriented words for user interaction. |

**Example:**

Consider this simple UOP-style code for logging in:
```beacon
inlet {
    username = ask("Enter your username: ")
    password = ask("Enter your password: ")

    attempt {
        user = authenticate(username, password)
        show("Welcome, |user.name|!")
    }
    trap AuthenticationError {
        show("Login failed. Please check your credentials.")
    }
}
```
The code reads like a set of instructions, making its purpose immediately clear even to a non-programmer.

---

## UOP vs. Traditional Paradigms

UOP can be seen as an evolution of other programming paradigms, combining their strengths while focusing on the human element.

| Aspect | UOP (Beacon) | Traditional OOP/Procedural |
|---|---|---|
| **Primary Focus** | The user's mental model and the clarity of the code's intent. | Data structures, objects, and algorithmic procedures. |
| **Syntax** | Natural-language-inspired, semantic keywords. | More technical and abstract keywords (e.g., `class`, `try`, `raise`). |
| **Goal** | To make code a medium for clear communication. | To provide precise instructions for the machine to execute efficiently. |
| **Error Handling** | A narrative flow (`attempt`, `trap`). | A more rigid, system-level construct (`try`, `catch`). |

---

## Conclusion

UOP is more than just a set of keywords; it is a design philosophy that shapes the entire Beacon language. By prioritizing the human user—both the developer writing the code and the end-user interacting with the program—UOP aims to make software development a more intuitive, creative, and accessible discipline.

Commit message:

Rebrand to Nervestack (NCI) and preserve 'traverse' keyword syntax
- Updated all documentation (README, IMPLEMENTATION_STATUS)
- Renamed all .bpl files to .ns
- Rebranded CLI, AST, Parser, and Interpreter
- Maintained 'traverse' keyword for loop constructs as requested
- Updated project metadata (package.json)

UOP.md, after:

# Universal User-Oriented Programming (UOP)

Universal User-Oriented Programming (UOP) is the design philosophy behind the Nervestack language. It prioritizes human readability, intuition, and clarity, aiming to bridge the gap between human thought processes and machine execution.

---

## The Core Principles of UOP

1.  **Human-Centric Keywords:** Language constructs are named with common words that clearly describe their function (e.g., `ask`, `show`, `check`, `attempt`). This minimizes the cognitive load required to understand the code's intent.

2.  **Intuitive Structure:** The syntax is designed to follow the logical flow of human thought. For example, error handling with `attempt-trap` reads like a plain-language description of trying an action and catching a problem.

3.  **Clarity Over Brevity:** While Nervestack code can be concise, the primary goal is always clarity. UOP avoids cryptic symbols and abbreviations in favor of expressive, self-documenting code.

4.  **Universal Accessibility:** The language is designed to be approachable for a wide audience, including beginners, educators, artists, and engineers, without sacrificing the power needed for complex applications.

---

## UOP in Practice

UOP is reflected in every aspect of the Nervestack language, from its syntax to its modular structure.

| Feature | UOP Implementation | Rationale |
|---|---|---|
| **Functions** | `spec` | "Specification" implies defining a clear behavior. |
| **Interfaces** | `bridge` | A "bridge" is a relatable metaphor for connecting two separate things. |
| **Modules** | `toolkit` | A "toolkit" is an intuitive name for a collection of reusable tools. |
| **Conditionals** | `check`, `alter`, `altern` | These words clearly describe a process of checking conditions. |
| **Error Handling** | `attempt`, `trap`, `trigger` | This vocabulary frames error handling as an active, understandable process. |
| **Input/Output** | `ask`, `show` | These are direct, action-oriented words for user interaction. |

**Example:**

Consider this simple UOP-style code for logging in:
```Nervestack
inlet {
    username = ask("Enter your username: ")
    password = ask("Enter your password: ")

    attempt {
        user = authenticate(username, password)
        show("Welcome, |user.name|!")
    }
    trap AuthenticationError {
        show("Login failed. Please check your credentials.")
    }
}
```
The code reads like a set of instructions, making its purpose immediately clear even to a non-programmer.

---

## UOP vs. Traditional Paradigms

UOP can be seen as an evolution of other programming paradigms, combining their strengths while focusing on the human element.

| Aspect | UOP (Nervestack) | Traditional OOP/Procedural |
|---|---|---|
| **Primary Focus** | The user's mental model and the clarity of the code's intent. | Data structures, objects, and algorithmic procedures. |
| **Syntax** | Natural-language-inspired, semantic keywords. | More technical and abstract keywords (e.g., `class`, `try`, `raise`). |
| **Goal** | To make code a medium for clear communication. | To provide precise instructions for the machine to execute efficiently. |
| **Error Handling** | A narrative flow (`attempt`, `trap`). | A more rigid, system-level construct (`try`, `catch`). |

---

## Conclusion

UOP is more than just a set of keywords; it is a design philosophy that shapes the entire Nervestack language. By prioritizing the human user—both the developer writing the code and the end-user interacting with the program—UOP aims to make software development a more intuitive, creative, and accessible discipline.
